README.md, before:

This is an object-oriented Ruby script, built by Diana Ozemebhoya Eromosele, a software developer-in-residence at Newark Venture Funds, and commissioned by a healthcare database hub that allows heathcare providers to find top talent with ease.

The script takes in an input CSV file that contains limited data about individual doctors in a company's database.

The script makes informal requests to the 'www.docinfo.org' server, to find a doctor's record in their much larger, comprehensive, online database. If the record is found, the script pulls down additional data about the doctor, including the doctor's full name, medical school, graduation year, the states that the doctor has an active medical license in, and states in which a medical board action was taken against the doctor.

The script generates two output CSV files:

1) the first, **output_data_all_doctors.csv**, will list **all** of the doctors found in the initial CSV file, with any updated data from www.docInfo.org included;

2) the second CSV file generated, **output_data_updated_doctors_only.csv**, will list only those doctors from the initial CSV file whose data was updated and enhanced by data from www.docInfo.org

The developers at the healthcare database hub can then take either of the two CSV files generated and funnel the data back into their database.

Instructions to Run the Script:

1) In your command line, type:
ruby controller.rb name-of-csv-file.csv
(A mock input CSV file has been provided. And thus, to run the script w/ that mock data, run: **ruby controller.rb input_data.csv**)

2) The 2 CSV files that will be generated are named:

**a)** output_data_all_doctors.csv
**b)** output_data_updated_doctors_only.csv

**A Few Things to Keep in Mind**:

1) Finding a doctor's record in the www.docinfo.org database would be a lot easier if the database contained the doctor's NPI (a National Provider Identifier). A NPI number is the non-changing identifier given to all healthcare practitioners that stays with practitioners for the length of their careers.

The input CSV file has each doctor's NPI, however the www.docinfo.org database does not. The script currently searches for doctors and confirms a match by comparing the following data: first name, last name, gender and specialties. The comparison is not default-proof. An NPI comparison would be ideal and nearly perfect. Modifying the script to make a comparison using a doctor's NPI is simple and easy to do.

2) Making a request to the informal www.docinfo.org database will return a maximum of 10 records (possible matches) per doctor, despite there being dozens, if not hundereds of more matches in their database. One possible explanation for this is when you visit www.docinfo.org and make a request using their standard search engine, the first page returns 10 hits. This Ruby script is making informal requests to that search engine, and could not get around retrieving more than 10 records for each doctor...which leads to point #3:

3) Pulling data from the www.docinfo.org search engine using a back-end script is not exactly within the terms of use of their site, as stated below in an excerpt pulled from the site's "Terms of Use". Please keep that in mind:

"You will not use any robot, spider, site search/retrieval application, or other manual or automatic device or process to retrieve, index, “data mine”, or in any way reproduce or circumvent the navigational structure or presentation of the Service or its contents."

Commit message:

Edit ReadMe to include data about installing nokogiri gem for different versions of Ruby

README.md, after:

This is an object-oriented Ruby script, built by Diana Ozemebhoya Eromosele, a software developer-in-residence at Newark Venture Funds, and commissioned by a healthcare database hub that allows healthcare providers to find top talent with ease.

The script takes in an input CSV file that contains limited data about individual doctors in a company's database.

The script makes informal requests to the 'www.docinfo.org' server, to find a doctor's record in their much larger, comprehensive, online database. If the record is found, the script pulls down additional data about the doctor, including the doctor's full name, medical school, graduation year, the states that the doctor has an active medical license in, and states in which a medical board action was taken against the doctor.

The script generates two output CSV files:

1) the first, **output_data_all_doctors.csv**, will list **all** of the doctors found in the initial CSV file, with any updated data from www.docInfo.org included;

2) the second CSV file generated, **output_data_updated_doctors_only.csv**, will list only those doctors from the initial CSV file whose data was updated and enhanced by data from www.docInfo.org

The developers at the healthcare database hub can then take either of the two CSV files generated and funnel the data back into their database.

Instructions to Run the Script:

1) Depending on your version of Ruby, you may need to manually install the Nokogiri gem from your command line. (The gem is required in the controller file, but that may not suffice depending on your version of Ruby and thus may throw an error). To manually install the gem, in your terminal, type:

**gem install nokogiri**

2) A mock CSV file has been provided to run the script. In your command line, type:

 **ruby controller.rb input_data.csv**

(You can funnel whatever CSV file you want through the script using this standard format: **ruby controller.rb name-of-input-file.csv**)

3) The 2 CSV files that will be generated are named:

**a)** output_data_all_doctors.csv
**b)** output_data_updated_doctors_only.csv

**A Few Things to Keep in Mind**:

1) Finding a doctor's record in the www.docinfo.org database would be a lot easier if the database contained the doctor's NPI (a National Provider Identifier). A NPI number is the non-changing identifier given to all healthcare practitioners that stays with practitioners for the length of their careers.

The input CSV file has each doctor's NPI, however the www.docinfo.org database does not. The script currently searches for doctors and confirms a match by comparing the following data: first name, last name, gender and specialties. The comparison is not default-proof. An NPI comparison would be ideal and nearly perfect. Modifying the script to make a comparison using a doctor's NPI is simple and easy to do.

2) Making a request to the informal www.docinfo.org database will return a maximum of 10 records (possible matches) per doctor, despite there being dozens, if not hundreds of more matches in their database. One possible explanation for this is when you visit www.docinfo.org and make a request using their standard search engine, the first page returns 10 hits. This Ruby script is making informal requests to that search engine, and could not get around retrieving more than 10 records for each doctor...which leads to point #3:

3) Pulling data from the www.docinfo.org search engine using a back-end script is not exactly within the terms of use of their site, as stated below in an excerpt pulled from the site's "Terms of Use". Please keep that in mind:

"You will not use any robot, spider, site search/retrieval application, or other manual or automatic device or process to retrieve, index, “data mine”, or in any way reproduce or circumvent the navigational structure or presentation of the Service or its contents."
